Hello and welcome.
We're finally done with the course.
This is our last lecture.
Hooray.
We're finally done.
So I wanted to write a little coarse summary.
This is a time to reflect.
Try to go back and try to remember everything you learned.
This was quite a big class.
We covered a ton of time concepts related design patterns.
So let's just kind of go through them see what we've learned.
Pat ourselves on the back and finally be done with design patterns.
The learning design patterns you're still going to use them quite a bit.
But remember we covered a lot of topics.
We first started off with just giving an overview of the design patterns right.
We provided definition we told you a little history about the Gang of Four how these gang of four came
out with a book identify 23 design patterns that were central for software development.
We then moved on and talked about why would you ever want to study design patterns right.
And we went through many many different points in terms of they have a lot of benefits and really help
you write clean high quality code.
Mainly they provide for loose coupling which least which makes the dependencies between objects much
smaller.
They provide for high cohesion which makes objects much more focused.
Basically they make it easier to maintain and fix your code with this loose coupling and this high cohesion.
Not to mention many other good design principles with separation of code and integration segregation
principles single responsibility.
We also went through all those but all of these are advantages of design patterns and you really should
get in the habit of using these as much as possible because of all these advantages.
We then talked about the types of deposit design patterns and how they're separated right.
There's three basic classifications are criminal patterns roughly five of them are behavior patterns
roughly 11 in our structural patterns roughly seven I believe and each one of these classifications
focus on a certain group of design patterns because of what they do.
Recreational patterns create instance of all of objects behavior patterns have to do with how objects
communicate relate to one another and structural patterns have to do with the structure of the objects.
And so we went through all these different patterns but before we started learning about the design
patterns we first focused on some of the principles of strategies that all the design patterns follow
right.
We talked about design symbols which are really just indications that your design has some issues has
some problems.
You know things like tight coupling things like very low cohesion things like where objects are just
too big or the objects are depending on one another and it's just really really hard to fix or add new
software.
Your code is very rigid you can't change your code very easily changing one thing will cause a big headache
and so you don't end up changing anything.
And then we started talking about the various principles programming to an interface really the concept
of just always using an interface not really paying attention to concrete classes.
When you're the client composition over inheritance this has a relationship either using composition
or aggregation instead of is a relationship inheritance because of dependencies with the base in subclasses.
We talked about delegation principles.
We're really this has to do with responsibility.
Each object should have a certain responsibility and you can delegate responsibilities to other objects.
We talked about single responsibility.
This has to do with cohesion All right.
Everything should be have a single focus.
Objects should not be all over the place and do 100 different things.
The open closed principle this is a really really popular one.
Open for extension closed for change.
Once a class is done it's done.
We can extend it we can add new functionality to it.
But if this class has a lot of variation we don't want to keep changing it.
Less golf substitution principle this has to do with a base class and a subclass.
You don't want to have a base class break a subclass.
So the methods that you have in the base class you want to treat a base class Object reference.
They should be in the subclasses.
Otherwise you can break things.
Interface segregation principle this is when you just have a bunch a bunch of different methods and
an interface and yet a lot of the classes and implement the interface don't care about those methods.
So you want to separate those methods into separate interfaces.
The interface is really just being highly cohesive.
We then talked about the difference between dependency and aversion versus dependency injection.
Right.
Inversion is more of a principle more of a way of thinking where we basically instead of thinking in
a top down approach we think in a bottom up approach where injection is where you can pass around an
object and inject it in other places.
If you need that object it kind of goes hand with the Singleton although you don't want to use dependency
injection when you're passing around the object to many many many different classes.
In that case you want to use Singleton but again instead of creating a single OP instance and then keep
using that all over you know you would just create the single instance one and then pass it around and
so those are good design principles of strategies that all these patterns that we study followed and
so it was important to understand these because they're closely closely related.
One more thing we had to learn which is UML.
This is the unified model language.
This is how you can document design and it was important to understand this because many of the design
patterns utilize this in the terms of a class diagram or sequence diagram.
So we studied that very briefly.
We also studied the modules we control that was towards the end of the class just a high level view
because it is a big architectural type pattern and it's a it's a big term or phrase that you hear about
so should at least know what it means.
Then we drove into the creation of design patterns that was really the first thing we did.
We talked about 5 different patterns all had to do with creating the instance of an object the factory
in the abstract factory similar the abstract factory is a factory of factories you can think of a family
grouping but the factory allows us to create a specific type in just one class unless you want to implement
it in the more traditional sense where you have a subclass for each factory but we tend to like to use
and send parameter strings which will determine the type of instance create.
We talked about a singleton the singleton is where you just want to create a single instance.
We talked about some of the issues with the singleton and then the many different implementations of
the Singleton the bill PUA approach versus the double locking approach versus a lazy evaluation versus
eager evaluation.
We also discussed the builder.
This can build very complex types of objects.
Typically objects where the constructor has a lot of attributes the order matters when you call a constructor
right.
The builder can simplify those types of things.
Prototype is used for copy more or less.
We talked about the cloning interface in Java but the prototype is nice because we can copy an object
use it do things with it and we don't have to worry about affecting the object that we copied.
We then drove in to our structural design patterns and there is about 7 of these.
These have to do with structure how objects in enter relate to one another but really the structure
they adaptor was the first one that we focused on.
This has to do with two incompatible interfaces making them be able to talk to one another right.
We use the example of an adapter.
Well just a plug in trying to plug a regular adapter into a European outlet.
Right you need something that does that conversion and that's what the adapter provides.
Dancers are typically used in legacy type systems after the interfaces have already been created but
now you want to use them together.
We talked about the bridge we talked about the composite the composite is many objects made up of one.
The decorator which is an alternative to classing the facade which is really just making an interface
or many interfaces to subsystems much more simpler by providing a front end interface.
The flyweight which can help with objects that are not very performing very well right.
We want to make something with performance so we'll pass around many objects and they won't have an
expensive cost.
We talked about the proxy the proxy is a popular one and it's just like you would think of the traditional
definition of the proxy just like you use on the Internet.
It's an Intermedia.
It controls access to objects.
We had some great examples where we had the internet example work and control and secure access.
The last classification of patterns that we discussed were these 11 behavior design patterns descriptions
of how patterns can work together or communicate the chain of responsibility pattern was the first one
we focused on and that has to do with really just a chain of objects.
We can have a next object in each chain and then we just go from one object to the next.
If that object needs to do something it will do it.
Otherwise it won't.
The command is all about encapsulating commands.
Each object is going to have a specific command.
And so this again is about separation.
Loose coupling.
The interpreter has to do with understanding general languages we use to utilize the grammar to understand
the interpreter and the interpreter it doesn't do any parsing but it does provide a mechanism where
given a natural language we can understand if sentences are in that language iterator one of the more
popular ones.
Also one of the more easy ones to understand because of the Java collections framework we're able to
traverse a list or an array list using an iterator and we don't care what the elements are.
We're gonna go through that list the same way.
There are typically four methods that we use in the iterator the next the has next might get the current
item and we might also check check other things.
The mediator mediator is really a centralized location for all communication between different objects.
The momento is a way to save and restore points in an object so it will save certain states at specified
times.
The momento is usually implemented as an class and it can control access through its other components.
The Observer observer probably the most popular design pattern I should say the observers use quite
a bit and it's really sort of like a broadcasting mechanism.
Any time an object needs to know some information it can register with an observer and anytime the observer
state or any other state changes all the other objects that are registered will be notified.
The state design pattern will get rid of conditional statements when you have conditional statements
depending on state and have different actions depending on that state change you will do something you
don't need those conditional statements anymore because all of those actions are encapsulated into a
state object.
The strategy design pattern closely related to the state although it has to do with algorithms it also
utilized polymorphism like the state and it does different strategies.
We had examples of the strategy would like purchasing online goods versus perching them in the store
template map that we just got just got completed.
This has to do with a skelter algorithm.
We have an abstract class that defense that defines the skeletal algorithm with a series of steps that
are ordered and then we have concrete classes that may or may not implement some of those steps.
Some of the steps may implement in the abstract class the ones that are unique that are different will
go on the subclasses and then we finished up with the all important visitor object which has to do with
mainly an object structure and object structure meaning a composite of objects or list or collection
we can add new functionality to the elements in the list without affecting that structure.
So we use this visitor and the visitor can add new functionality to the elements.
The elements will just be passed in a visitor and then implement except visit methods and so we covered
quite a bit.
You should be proud of yourself.
That's a lot of information and a lot of patterns and a lot of high quality code and code in design.
We also talked a little bit about the end of awesome J to e patterns but that was just a high level
overview.
Hopefully now you can look back and everything you learned and you can say hey I understand the fundamentals
of design patterns.
I know how to implement most of these design patterns.
I can create Java applications that use these design patterns.
That's really the goal of the class right.
And also while understanding these design patterns I really really hope that you improve your problem
solving skills right.
You can prove those skills by using efficient proven methods.
That's key right.
Design Patterns are common solutions to common problems.
They've been tried and tested over the years and when we follow those try and tested means lot of smart
people come up with these ideas and we're following them.
So we're really following good proven methods.
I also hope you learn how to write high quality Joe Java code because of all these design characteristics
that we learned about.
But basically you should be proficient in basic design principles because the design patterns are following
a lot of them into and the lecture.
I want to say congratulations.
Pat yourself on the back.
You did a great job you learned a lot.
Like I said this class these concepts are not easy.
I would I would encourage you to continue to study them.
OK and also don't hesitate to ask questions.
I monitor the CUNY board every day so I should get back to you pretty quickly.
Also please provide feedback via the ratings please provide fair feedback.
It's important the ratings are used quite a bit and the classes and so I'm just looking for fair feedback.
I know I'm not perfect OK.
I know I tend to ramble on.
I know I've repeated myself quite a bit.
Sometimes it's intentional to focus emphasize important characteristics sometimes I just ramble on.
I apologize for that.
I also know that I make mistakes.
There are some mistakes in the code.
Please be gentle.
Don't hold it against me I put a lot of effort in the class I did the best I could.
Everybody makes mistakes.
And again hopefully you learned a lot.
Hopefully you'll forgive me on some of the things so please provide fair ratings fair constructive criticism.
And you know I'm always looking for constructive criticism.
Always looking for ways to improve the course so if you have any ideas on how to improve this course
please let me know and I'll continue to make course updates to improve this class.
I'm always looking new improved so I'll make updates.
I may add some other design patterns if they end up being popular and so forth.
But again congratulations.
I really appreciate you signing up for the course.
The most important thing is that you learned a lot and so I really hope you learned a lot.
Good luck in your future software career.
I really really encourage you to use design patterns.
And thank you very much for signing up for the class.